---
layout: post
title: "4Cs Panel A6  Your Previous Assumptions Do Trip You"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

## S. Moulthrop -- Non-Identity "Replacing Ourselves"

eTxt replaces itself
2 textual experiments: "Unmix" d.wyler, Moulthrop "WISE MARX"

### Wiley's Unmix
Change cultural meaning is to change the meaning; takes Lessig's preface to Remix and tags it HTML with autogenerated --Very Oulipian

### WISE MARX
response to M. Joyce's *Was* (2007)
What does a novel want us to do? --thinking genre as social action
Again, very oulipian, takes Joyce's texts, takes phrases, google's them, aggregates content into a database, then creates a new 15,000 word text.

Says this process is *recriture*, etc.

Replaces content with data, but how is this used in the classroom?

- use to aesthetic of mashup, or critique these texts; essentially, write about, but M is not satisfied with this
- Cites from Brooke, At/Through/From, now he says INTO is added into the set of situations, perspectives, angles, etc.
- Cites J. Brown's Gym! Inform 7 work, feeding writing into programming --thinking how it is a new media that exposes the nature of these technologies in this time period

### Rachel Sullivan -- Give us an UNDO button

facebook timelines & the passionate error

Against user-friendliness, control, and smoothness --YEAH! I've thought about this too! Esp in ed contexts; wondering how she will frame the role of the error and provide some examples.

passion || passivity || patience

### A. Wysocki -- Facebook and Memory and Self

Algorithmic test--constructed on the fly... for you. but not sure what she means who is writing this. Talking about search algs; amazon, google, and other sites that use previous actions as a means to steer you to the next page. Much of this reminds me of the great 2004 book New Media Writing

Writing didn't destroy memory, but replaced a set of actions for us to follow toward a new memory and new types of memories

Talks about construction of things and texts produce memories, self/identity, and culture -- also reminds me of Papert's social constructionist principles of education

how does the media ecology enable or deny certain types of memories and memory making and self?

talks about the wall feed on FB; brings in our ability to call upon these spaces quickly, if we've used them; marks the char count (one can post an avg sized novel in 9 posts); this space structures assuades a paratactic/lyrical approach to content creation.
